Hi there,

Welcome to the deSEC DNS service! I'm Nils, CTO of deSEC. If you have
any questions or concerns, please do not hestitate to contact me.

To get started with our REST API, please take a look at our
documentation at https://desec.readthedocs.io/. Please make sure to
read the introduction and the chapter on how to create domains and DNS
records ("RRsets").

For access to our REST API, you will have to transmit an authorization
token. Your token is: {{ token }}

A few more hints:

1.)
Once you created a domain and populated it with DNS records, they will
be made publicly available on the following nameservers:

  * ns1.desec.io (US)
  * ns2.desec.io (DE)

Note that no private key material is stored outside of Germany.

Publication is usually a matter of seconds. (Creation of new domains
may take up to a minute, though.)

2.)
All DNS records are automatically secured with DNSSEC. For the system
to work properly, you need to provide your registrar (where you
registered your domain name) with so-called DS records. These records
contain cryptographic information to allow verification of DNSSEC
information through the hierarchy of domains, all the way down from
the root zone.

You need to ask our API for these DS records so that you can forward
them to your registrar. To do so, retrieve your domain from our API
(GET https://desec.io/api/v1/domains/:name/) and take a look at the
"keys" field.

Some registrars ask for a DNSKEY value instead of DS records. The
DNSKEY value is also contained in the "keys" field of your domain.

For more information, please refer to the documentation:
  https://desec.readthedocs.io/en/latest/#domain-field-reference
  https://desec.readthedocs.io/en/latest/#retrieving-a-specific-domain


While this service is in beta test, we make no guarantees regarding
the availability of the REST API. However, we are not planning on
major outages or incompatible API changes. We also expect our frontend
nameservers to be available all through (but again, no guarantees).

We know there is always room for improvement, so please shoot me
an email if we can do anything better.

Thanks for using deSEC, we hope you do enjoy your DNSSEC-enabled
DNS hosting service.

Stay secure,
Nils

--
deSEC
Kyffh√§userstr. 5
10781 Berlin
Germany

phone: +49-30-47384344

Vorstandsvorsitzender: Nils Wisiol
